.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Sebastiano Merlino
.\" 
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of
.\" this manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that
.\" the entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of
.\" a permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume.
.\" no responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting.
.\" from the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may.
.\" not have taken the same level of care in the production of this.
.\" manual, which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working.
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END

.TH LIBHTTPSERVER "3" "02 Mar 2013 "libhttpserver"
.SH "NAME"
libhttpserver \- C++ library for creating an embedded Rest HTTP server (and more) 
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

 \fB#include <httpserver.hpp>

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.P
libhttpserver is an api made with the intent to allow to easily realize Rest based webservers.
.P
The details of the API are described in a detailed documentation and in doxygen generated code reference.
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBcurl\fP(1), \fBlibcurl\fP(3), \fBlibmicrohttpd\fP(3)

.SH "LEGAL NOTICE"
libhttpserver is released under the LGPL Version 2.1 or higher.  For details on the license please read the appendix in the manual.

.SH "FILES"
.TP
httpserver.hpp
libhttpserver include file
.TP
libhttpserver.so
libhttpserver library

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs by using github issue tracker <https://github.com/etr/libhttpserver/issues>.

.SH "AUTHORS"
GNU libhttpserver is designed and realized by Sebastiano Merlino <electrictwister2000@gmail.com>.

.SH "AVAILABILITY"
You can obtain the latest version from https://github.com/etr/libhttpserver .
